.TH SMP_REP_BROADCAST "8" "June 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_broadcast \- invoke REPORT BROADCAST SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_broadcast
[\fI\-\-broadcast=BT\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT BROADCAST function request to
a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may
be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-broadcast\fR=\fIBT\fR
\fIBT\fR is the broadcast type, an integer in the range 0 (default) to 15.
Broadcast (Change) corresponds to 0. Other known broadcast types are
listed in the NOTES section. \fIBT\fR may be decimal (default) or
hexadecimal prefixed by '0x' (or '0X') or with a 'h' (or 'H') suffix.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH NOTES
The following is a list of broadcast types:
.br
0        Broadcast (Change)
.br
1        Broadcast (Reserved change 0)
.br
2        Broadcast (Reserved change 1)
.br
3        Broadcast (SES)
.br
4        Broadcast (Expander)
.br
5        Broadcast (Asynchronous event)
.br
6        Broadcast (Reserved 3)
.br
7        Broadcast (Reserved 4)
.br
8        Broadcast (Zone activate)
.PP
The remaining zone types (9 to 15) may be issued by the ZONED BROADCAST
function.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT BROADCAST function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_zoned_broadcast(smp_utils)
