.TH SMP_PHY_CONTROL "8" "March 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_phy_control \- invoke PHY CONTROL SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_phy_control
[\fI\-\-attached=ADN\fR] [\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR]
[\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-max=MA\fR]
[\fI\-\-min=MI\fR] [\fI\-\-op=OP\fR] [\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-pptv=TI\fR]
[\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) PHY CONTROL request function to a SMP
target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced
from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. With one interface there is one \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
per machine so the \fISMP_DEVICE,N\fR syntax is needed to differentiate
between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.PP
The PHY CONTROL function is used to change the state of a phy within a SMP
target. SMP targets are typically SAS expanders which have multiple phys.
Certain operation values (e.g. 'lr' (link reset) and 'hr' (hard reset))
change the state of the attached phy. Sending such operation values to the
phy in the SMP target that is attached to the originator (i.e. the SMP
initiator) may lead to a bad response.
.PP
Invoking this utility with no arguments (other than \fISMP_DEVICE\fR which
might be in an environment variable and \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR which might
be in an environment variable or not needed) is harmless. In other words a
phy's state is only changed when either \fI\-\-max=MA\fR, \fI\-\-min=MI\fR,
\fI\-\-op=OP\fR or \fI\-\-pptv=TI\fR is given with a non default value.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-attached\fR=\fIADN\fR
specifies the attached device name (\fIADN\fR). The default value is 0 .
The \fIADN\fR is in decimal but is likely to be a SAS address which is
typically shown in hexadecimal. To specify a number in hexadecimal either
prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-max\fR=\fIMA\fR
permits the programmed maximum physical link rate to be changed on the
gven phy. Permitted values are: 0 \-> no change, 8 \-> 1.5 Gbps, 9 \-> 3
Gbps, 10 \-> 6 Gbps. Default value is 0.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-min\fR=\fIMI\fR
permits the programmed minimum physical link rate to be changed on the
given phy. Permitted values are: 0 \-> no change, 8 \-> 1.5 Gbps, 9 \-> 3
Gbps, 10 \-> 6 Gbps. Default value is 0.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-op\fR=\fIOP\fR
specifies the operation to be performed on the given phy. The \fIOP\fR
argument can be either numeric or a string. If a number is given, it is put
into the 'phy operation' field of the request. Allowable strings are
abbreviations of which only the first two characters need to match. The
supported strings are: 'nop' (no operation), 'lr' (link reset), 'hr' (hard
reset), 'dis' (disable phy), 'cel' (clear error log), 'ca' (clear
affiliation), 'tspss' (transmit SATA port selection signal), 'citnl' (clear
STP I_T nexus loss (bit)), and 'sadn' (set attached device name).  The
default value is 0 (no operation).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 127. Default is 0.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-pptv\fR=\fITI\fR
partial pathway timeout value. The units are microseconds and the permitted
values are between 0 and 15 inclusive. 7 microseconds is recommended by
sas2r07.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS
addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal either
prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP PHY CONTROL function was introduced in SAS\-1 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2009 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover(smp_utils)
