.TH SMP_DISCOVER "8" "February 2012" "smp_utils\-0.98" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_discover \- invoke DISCOVER SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_discover
[\fI\-\-adn\fR] [\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-ignore\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-list\fR]
[\fI\-\-multiple\fR] [\fI\-\-my\fR] [\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR] [\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR]
[\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-summary\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] [\fI\-\-zero\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends one or more SAS Serial Management Protocol (SMP) DISCOVER function
requests to an SMP target and decodes or outputs the responses. The SMP target
is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on
the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR.
The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP
initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs
if there are multiple present.
.PP
If the \fI\-\-phy=ID\fR option is not given then \fI\-\-summary\fR is
assumed. When \fI\-\-summary\fR is given or assumed, this utility shows
the disposition of each active expander phy in table form. One row is shown
for each phy and is described in the SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT section
below. For this purpose disabled and errored expander phys are
considered "active" and can be suppressed from the output by adding the
\fI\-\-brief\fR option.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-adn\fR
causes the "attached device name" field to be output when the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR or \fI\-\-summary\fR option is also given. See the section
below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT. Note the "attached device name" field
was added is SAS\-2.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
reduce the decoded response output. If used twice will exit if there is no
attached device (after outputting that). When used with \fI\-\-multiple\fR,
unattached phys are not listed; when used twice, trims attached phys
output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR
sets the Ignore Zone Group bit in the SMP Discover request. Expander
phys hidden by zoning will appear as "phy vacant" unless this option
is given.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
list attributes in "name=value" form, one entry per line.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiple\fR
loops over multiple phys within SMP target (typically an expander) and
does a DISCOVER request and outputs a one line summary. Phy 0 is queried
first, then phy 1, continuing until an error occurs. If \fI\-\-brief\fR is
given then there is no output for phys that indicate there is no attached
device; when used twice additionally trims the output line of attached phys.
See the section below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-my\fR
outputs my (this expander's) SAS address in hex (prefixed by "0x"). This
is obtained from the DISCOVER response of phy id 0 (unless \fI\-\-phy=ID\fR
is given). The expander's SAS address is typically available even if a phy
is not connected, "vacant" or disabled. This option overrides most other
options (e.g. overrides \fI\-\-multiple\fR and \fI\-\-summary\fR options).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fINUM\fR
number of phys to fetch, starting at \fI\-\-phy=ID\fR when the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR option is given. The default value is 0 which is
interpreted as "the rest" (i.e. until a "phy does not exist" function
result is received). This option is ignored in the absence of the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 254. If this option is
not given then the \fI\-\-summary\fR option is assumed.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-summary\fR
output a multi line summary, with one line per active phy. Checks all
phys (or less is \fI\-\-num=NUM\fR is given), starting at phy 0 (unless
\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR is given). Equivalent to '\-\-multiple \-\-brief' ('\-mb').
See the section below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT. If the
\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR is not given then this option is assumed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-zero\fR
zero the Allocated Response Length field in the request. This option
also zeros the Request Length field in the request. This is required
for strict SAS\-1.1 compliance. However this option should not be
given in SAS\-2 and later; if it is given an abridged response may result.
.SH SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT
The \fI\-\-summary\fR option causes SMP DISCOVER responses to be compressed
to a header followed by one line per phy. To save space SAS addresses are
shown in hex without a '0x' prefix or 'h' suffix. The header line gives the
SAS address of the SMP target itself and assumes it is an expander.
.PP
Each line starts with "  phy  <n>:" where <n> is the phy identifier (and
they are origin zero). That is followed by the routing attribute represented
by a single letter which is either "D" for direct routing, "S" for
subtractive routing, "T" or "U". Both "T" and "U" imply table routing, the
difference is that if REPORT GENERAL indicates "table to table supported"
then "U" is output to indicate that phy can be part of an enclosure
.B universal
port; otherwise "T" is used. Next comes the negotiated physical link rate
which is either "disabled", "reset problem" or "spinup hold". Other states
are mapped to "attached". This includes enabled phys with nothing connected
which appear as "attached:[0000000000000000:00]".
.PP
Information shown between the brackets is for the attached device.
Phys that are connected display something
like: "attached:[5000c50000520a2a:01 " where the first number is the
attached SAS address (in hex) and the second number is the attached
device's phy identifier. If the attached device type is other
than an end device then one of these abbreviations is
output: "exp" (for expander), "fex" (for fanout
expander) or "res" (for unknown attached device type). If a phy is
flagged as "virtual" then the letter "V" appears next. Next are the
protocols supported by the attached device which are
shown as "i(<list>)" for initiator protocols and/or "t(<list>)" for
target protocols. The <list> is made up
of "PORT_SEL", "SSP", "STP", "SMP" and "SATA" with "+" used as a
separator. For example a SAS host adapter wi11 most likely appear
as: "i(SSP+STP+SMP)". This completes the information about the
attached phy, hence the closing right bracket.
.PP
If appropriate, the negotiated physical link rate is shown in
gigabits per second. Here is an example of a line for expander
phy identifier 11 connected to a SATA target (or SATA "device" to use
the t13.org term):
.PP
  phy  11:T:attached:[500605b000000afb:00  t(SATA)]  1.5 Gbps
.PP
If the expander has zoning enabled (i.e. REPORT GENERAL response bit
for 'zoning enabled' is set) and a phy's zone group is other than zg 1
then the phy's zone group is shown (e.g. "ZG:2").
.PP
If the \fI\-\-adn\fR option is given then after the attached SAS address
and the attached device's phy identifier are output an extra field is
inserted containing the "attached device name" field. For a SAS disk this
should be its target device name (in NAA-5 format) and for a SATA disk its
WWN (if provided, also in NAA-5 format). Also when the \fI\-\-adn\fR option
is given the phy speed and zone group are not output in order to keep the
line length reasonable.
.SH NOTES
In SAS\-2 and later both the DISCOVER and DISCOVER LIST functions are
available. The DISCOVER LIST function should be favoured for several
reasons: its response can hold up to 40 descriptors each describing the 
state of one expander phy. The vast majority of expander chips on the market
support 36 phys or less so one DISCOVER LIST response will summarize the
states of all its phys. With the DISCOVER function only one expander phy's
state is returned in its response. Other advantages of the DISCOVER LIST
function are its "phy filter" and "descriptor type" function request fields.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP DISCOVER function was introduced in SAS\-1, with small additions
in SAS\-1.1 . There have been a large number of additions in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2012 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover_list, smp_phy_control
