.TH SMP_ENA_DIS_ZONING "8" "April 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_ena_dis_zoning \- invoke ENABLE DISABLE ZONING SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_ena_dis_zoning
[\fI\-\-disable\fR] [\fI\-\-ena\-dis=ED\fR] [\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR]
[\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR]
[\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-save=SAV\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) ENABLE DISABLE ZONING function request
to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may
be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.PP
If neither \fI\-\-disable\fR nor \fI\-\-ena\-dis=ED\fR options are given then
enable zoning (i.e. "\-\-ena\-dis=1") is assumed.
.PP
This function does not change the state of the current zoning enabled flag (as
seen in the REPORT GENERAL response). Such a state change will occur on a
subsequent invocation of the ZONE ACTIVATE function.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
maximum connection time limit.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-disable\fR
set the 'enable disable zoning' field in the SMP request to 2 which will
disable zoning.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-ena\-dis\fR=\fIED\fR
set the 'enable disable zoning' field in the SMP request. \fIED\fR may
take these values: 0 for no change, 1 for enable zoning (default) and 2 for
disable zoning. If this option and the \fI\-\-disable\fR option are both
given then they cannot contradict one another.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-save\fR=\fISAV\fR
set the 'save' field in the SMP request. \fISAV\fR may take these values:
0 for updating the shadow values (default), 1 for updating the saved values,
2 for updating shadow values and if available the saved values, 3 for
updating both saved and shadow values.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP ENABLE DISABLE ZONING function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_lock, smp_zone_activate, smp_zone_unlock(smp_utils)
