.TH SMP_REP_ROUTE_INFO "8" "January 2008" "smp_utils\-0.93" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_route_info \- invoke REPORT ROUTE INFORMATION SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_route_info
[\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-index=IN\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-multiple\fR] [\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR]
[\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT ROUTE INFORMATION function to
a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be
deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. With one interface there is one
\fISMP_DEVICE\fR per machine so the \fISMP_DEVICE,N\fR syntax is needed to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.PP
Each phy in a SAS expander that has an associated routing attribute
of "table" has a router table. The number of rows (or entries) in
each router table is given by the "expander route indexes" field
in the response of the REPORT GENERAL function.
.PP
When the \fI\-\-multiple\fR option is given, the REPORT ROUTE INFORMATION
function is called multiple times. The index value increments on
each iteration, starting from \fI\-\-index=IN\fR (default 0). If
\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR is given and \fINUM\fR is greater than zero then that is
the maximum number of iterations performed. If \fI\-\-num=NUM\fR is not
given (or \fINUM\fR is zero) then iterations continue until there are 4
adjacent disabled route entries (or some error is detected).
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIIN\fR
expander route index. \fIIN\fR is a value between 0 and 65535. Default is 0.
More precisely the maximum index value is (expander_route_indexes \- 1).
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiple\fR
call the REPORT ROUTE INFORMATION function multiple times, starting at
\fI\-\-index=IN\fR, incrementing the index value on each iteration for a
maximum of \fI\-\-num=NUM\fR iterations. For each enabled route table entry,
one line is output. If \fI\-\-num=NUM\fR is not given (or \fINUM\fR is zero)
then iterations continue until 4 adjacent disabled entries are found (or
some error occurs).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fINUM\fR
used with \fI\-\-multiple\fR option to specify the maximum number of
iterations.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 127. Default is 0.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT ROUTE INFORMATION function was introduced in SAS-1 .
The "Expander change count" field was added in SAS-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2008 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_rep_general(smp_utils)
