.TH SMP_REP_PHY_SATA "8" "March 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_phy_sata \- invoke REPORT PHY SATA SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_phy_sata
[\fI\-\-affiliation=AC\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
[\fI\-\-zero\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT PHY SATA request function
to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be
deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. With one interface there is one
\fISMP_DEVICE\fR per machine so the \fISMP_DEVICE,N\fR syntax is needed to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-affiliation\fR=\fIAC\fR
where \fIAC\fR is the affiliation context relative identifier that is
placed in request (new in sas2r08). Defaults to 0.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 127. Default is 0.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-zero\fR
zero the Allocated Response Length field in the request. This is required
for strict SAS\-1.1 compliance. However this option should not be
given in SAS\-2 and later; if it is given an abridged response may result.
Also zero Request Length field in the request. This is required
for strict SAS\-1.1 compliance. Again, this option should not be
given in SAS\-2 and later.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT PHY SATA function was introduced in SAS\-1 .
The "Expander change count", "STP I_T nexus loss occurred" and several other
fields were added in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_phy_control(smp_utils)
