.TH SMP_DISCOVER "8" "January 2009" "smp_utils\-0.95" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_discover \- invoke DISCOVER SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_discover
[\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-ignore\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-list\fR] [\fI\-\-multiple\fR]
[\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR] [\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) DISCOVER request function to a SMP
target and decodes or outputs the response. The SMP target is identified by
the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface,
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. With one
interface there is one \fISMP_DEVICE\fR per machine so the \fISMP_DEVICE,N\fR
syntax is needed to differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
reduce the decoded response output. If used twice will exit if there is no
attached device (after outputting that). When used with \fI\-\-multiple\fR,
unattached phys are not listed; when used twice, trims attached phys
output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR
sets the Ignore Zone Group bit in the SMP Discover request.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
list attributes in "name=value" form, one entry per line.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiple\fR
loops over multiple phys within SMP target (typically an expander) and
does a DISCOVER request and outputs a one line summary. Phy 0 is queried
first, then phy 1, continuing until an error occurs. If \fI\-\-brief\fR is
given then there is no output for phys that indicate there is no attached
device; when used twice additionally trims the output line of attached phys.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fINUM\fR
number of phys to fetch, starting at \fI\-\-phy=ID\fR when the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR option is given. The default value is 0 which is
interpreted as "the rest" (i.e. until a "phy does not exist" function
result is received). This option is ignored in the absence of the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 127. Default is 0.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH SINGLE LINE FORMAT
The \fI\-\-multiple\fR option causes SMP DISCOVER responses to be compressed
to a header followed by one line per phy. To save space SAS addresses are
shown in hex without a '0x' prefix or 'h' suffix. The header line gives the
SAS address of the SMP target itself and assumes it is an expander.
.PP
Each line starts with "  phy  <n>:" where <n> is the phy
identifier (and they are origin zero). That is followed by the routing
attribute represented by a single letter which is either "D" for direct
routing, "S" to subtractive routing or "T" for table routing. Then comes
the negotiated physical link rate which is either "disabled", "reset
problem" or "spinup hold". Other states are mapped to "attached". This
includes enabled phys with nothing connected which appear
as "attached:[0000000000000000:00]".
.PP
Information shown between the brackets is for the attached device.
Phys that are connected display something
like: "attached:[5000c50000520a2a:01 " where the first number is the
attached SAS address (in hex) and the second number is the attached
device's phy identifier. If the attached device type is other
than an end device then one of these abbreviations is
output: "exp" (for expander), "fex" (for fanout
expander) or "res" (for unknown attached device type). If a phy is
flagged as "virtual" then the letter "V" appears next. Next are the
protocols supported by the attached device which are
shown as "i(<list>)" for initiator protocols and/or "t(<list>)" for
target protocols. The <list> is made up
of "PORT_SEL", "SSP", "STP", "SMP" and "SATA" with "+" used as a
separator. For example a SAS host adapter wi11 most likely appear
as: "i(SSP+STP+SMP)". This completes the information about the
attached phy, hence the closing right bracket.
.PP
Finally, if appropriate, the negotiated physical link rate is shown in
gigabits per second. Here is an example of a line for expander
phy identifier 11 connected to a SATA target (or SATA "device" to use
the t13.org term):
.PP
  phy  11:T:attached:[500605b000000afb:00  t(SATA)]  1.5 Gbps
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP DISCOVER function was introduced in SAS-1, with small additions
in SAS-1.1 . There have been a large number of additions in SAS-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2009 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover_list, smp_phy_control
