.TH SMP_PHY_CONTROL "8" "May 2013" "smp_utils\-0.98" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_phy_control \- invoke PHY CONTROL SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_phy_control
[\fI\-\-attached=ADN\fR] [\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR]
[\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-max=MA\fR]
[\fI\-\-min=MI\fR] [\fI\-\-op=OP\fR] [\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-pptv=TI\fR]
[\fI\-\-pwrdis=PDC\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-sas_pa=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-sas_sl=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-sata_pa=CO\fR]
[\fI\-\-sata_sl=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Serial Management Protocol (SMP) PHY CONTROL function request
to an SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be
deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.PP
The PHY CONTROL function is used to change the state of a phy within an SMP
target. SMP targets are typically SAS expanders which have multiple phys.
Certain operation values (e.g. 'lr' (link reset) and 'hr' (hard reset))
change the state of the attached phy. Sending such operation values to the
phy in the SMP target that is attached to the originator (i.e. the SMP
initiator) may lead to a bad response.
.PP
Invoking this utility with no arguments (other than \fISMP_DEVICE\fR which
might be in an environment variable and \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR which might
be in an environment variable or not needed) is harmless. In other words a
phy's state is only changed when either \fI\-\-max=MA\fR, \fI\-\-min=MI\fR,
\fI\-\-op=OP\fR or \fI\-\-pptv=TI\fR is given with a non default value.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-attached\fR=\fIADN\fR
specifies the attached device name (\fIADN\fR). The default value is 0 .
The \fIADN\fR is in decimal but is likely to be a SAS address which is
typically shown in hexadecimal. To specify a number in hexadecimal either
prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it. This option is ignored
by the expander unless the '\-\-op=sadn' option is also given.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-max\fR=\fIMA\fR
permits the programmed maximum physical link rate to be changed on the
gven phy. Permitted values are:
.br
  \fB0\fR  : no change
.br
  \fB8\fR  : 1.5 Gbps
.br
  \fB9\fR  : 3 Gbps
.br
  \fB10\fR : 6 Gbps
.br
  \fB11\fR : 12 Gbps
.br
Default value is 0.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-min\fR=\fIMI\fR
permits the programmed minimum physical link rate to be changed on the
given phy. Permitted values are:
.br
  \fB0\fR  : no change
.br
  \fB8\fR  : 1.5 Gbps
.br
  \fB9\fR  : 3 Gbps
.br
  \fB10\fR : 6 Gbps
.br
  \fB11\fR : 12 Gbps
.br
Default value is 0.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-op\fR=\fIOP\fR
specifies the operation to be performed on the given phy. The \fIOP\fR
argument can be either numeric or a string. If a number is given, it is put
into the 'phy operation' field of the request. Allowable strings are
abbreviations of which only the first two characters need to match. Each
line in the following list contains a numeric value, a string and then a
brief explanation:
.br
  \fB0\fR : \fBnop\fR  : no operation
.br
  \fB1\fR : \fBlr\fR   : link reset
.br
  \fB2\fR : \fBhr\fR   : hard reset
.br
  \fB3\fR : \fBdis\fR  : disable phy
.br
  \fB5\fR : \fBcel\fR  : clear error log
.br
  \fB6\fR : \fBca\fR   : clear affiliation
.br
  \fB7\fR : \fBtspss\fR: transmit SATA port selection signal
.br
  \fB8\fR : \fBcitnl\fR: clear STP I_T nexus loss (bit)
.br
  \fB9\fR : \fBsadn\fR : set attached device name
.br
The default value is 0 (no operation).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 254. Default is 0.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-pptv\fR=\fITI\fR
partial pathway timeout value. The units are microseconds and the permitted
values are between 0 and 15 inclusive. 7 microseconds is recommended by
sas2r07.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-pwrdis\fR=\fIPDC\fR
where \fIPDC\fR is the power disable control value. The default value is 0
which means no change. The value of 1 is reserved; 2, if supported, instructs
the management device server to negate the POWER DISABLE signal; while 3, if
supported, instructs it to assert that signal. This applies to the phy
given by \fIID\fR (which defaults to 0).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS
addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal either
prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-sas_pa\fR=\fICO\fR
set the Enable SAS Partial field to \fICO\fR which is two bits wide.
The defined values for \fICO\fR are 0 for no change; 1 for manage partial
phy power conditions; 2 for disable partial phy power conditions.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-sas_sl\fR=\fICO\fR
set the Enable SAS Slumber field to \fICO\fR which is two bits wide.
The defined values for \fICO\fR are 0 for no change; 1 for manage slumber
phy power conditions; 2 for disable slumber phy power conditions.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-sata_pa\fR=\fICO\fR
set the Enable SATA Partial field to \fICO\fR which is two bits wide.
The defined values for \fICO\fR are 0 for no change; 1 for manage partial
phy power conditions; 2 for disable partial phy power conditions.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-sata_sl\fR=\fICO\fR
set the Enable SATA Slumber field to \fICO\fR which is two bits wide.
The defined values for \fICO\fR are 0 for no change; 1 for manage slumber
phy power conditions; 2 for disable slumber phy power conditions.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH NOTES
Once an expander phy has been disabled with \fI\-\-op=dis\fR then it can be
later re-enabled with a link reset or hard reset (e.g. \fI\-\-op=lr\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP PHY CONTROL function was introduced in SAS\-1 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2013 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover(smp_utils)
