.TH SMP_REP_ZONE_PERM_TBL "8" "April 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_zone_perm_tbl \- invoke REPORT ZONE PERMISSION TABLE function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_zone_perm_tbl
[\fI\-\-append\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-multiple\fR] [\fI\-\-nocomma\fR]
[\fI\-\-num=MD\fR] [\fI\-\-permf=FN\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-report=RT\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-start=SS\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends one or more SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT ZONE PERMISSION TABLE
function requests to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the
\fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface,
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt
interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and
needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there are
multiple present.
.PP
This SMP function returns zone permission descriptors which represent rows
of the zone permission table. There is a row for each source zone group
starting at zone group 0 and finishing at zone group 127 or zone group 255.
Due to the SMP response size restriction of 1028 bytes (including trailing
CRC), not all the zone permission table rows can be returned in one
REPORT ZONE PERMISSION TABLE function response. So multiple function calls
may be required with the \fI\-\-start=SS\fR option being used on the latter
calls to specify the next starting source zone group.
.PP
The \fI\-\-multiple\fR option will send multiple REPORT ZONE PERMISSION
TABLE requests until all source zone groups (or starting from
\fI\-\-start=SS\fR) are output. This option is the most convenient way
to output the whole zone permission table. In the absence of the
\fI\-\-multiple\fR option only one REPORT ZONE PERMISSION TABLE request is
sent.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
maximum connection time limit.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-append\fR
used in conjunction with \fI\-\-permf=FN\fR to append to \fIFN\fR if it
already exists. If \fIFN\fR does not exist then it is created.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiple\fR
starting at source zone group 0 (or \fISS\fR), multiple REPORT ZONE
PERMISSION TABLE requests are issued until the last (127th and 255th)
source zone descriptor is output. This option should not be given
together with the \fI\-\-num=MD\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nocomma\fR
output each zone group descriptor as a long string of hexadecimal digits,
two digits per byte. Default action is to output a comma separated list of
hexadecimal ASCII bytes for each zone group descriptor.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fIMD\fR
where \fIMD\fR is the maximum number of descriptors that can be reported
in the one response. The default value is 63. 63 is the maximum number
of "128 zone groups" sized descriptors that can fit in one response. If the
expander is using "256 zone groups" sized descriptors then a maximum of 31
descriptors can fit in one response. This option should not be given
together with the \fI\-\-multiple\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-permf\fR=\fIFN\fR
\fIFN\fR is a file to write the zone permission descriptors to. The default
action is to output the zone permissions descriptors to stdout. Note that the
whole permissions table may not fit in one response. If the \fIFN\fR exists
then it is truncated prior to the write unless \fI\-\-append\fR is given. To
append to the existing \fIFN\fR add the \fI\-\-append\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-report\fR=\fIRT\fR
set the 'report type' field in the SMP request. \fIRT\fR may take these
values: 0 for report current values (default); 1 for report the shadow
values; 2 for report saved values; 3 for report default values.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fISS\fR
starting (lowest numbered) source zone group (default: zone group 0).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH NOTES
There are some examples of the \fI\-\-permf=FN\fR format in the examples
directory. Note the need for symmetry: if Z[s,d] is set then so should
be Z[d,s] (e.g. if Z[2,8]=1 then so should Z[8,2]=1). It also seems to
be practical to set Z[s,s] (e.g. if zone group 8 is used then Z[8,8]=1).
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT ZONE PERMISSION TABLE function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_conf_zone_perm_tbl, smp_zone_lock(smp_utils)
