.TH SMP_CONF_PHY_EVENT "8" "December 2011" "smp_utils\-0.97" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_conf_phy_event \- invoke CONFIGURE PHY EVENT function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_conf_phy_event
[\fI\-\-clear\fR] [\fI\-\-enumerate\fR] [\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR]
[\fI\-\-file=FILE\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-pes=PES,PES...\fR]
[\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-thres=THR,THR...\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Serial Management Protocol (SMP) CONFIGURE PHY EVENT function
request to an SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the
\fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface,
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt
interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and
needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there are
multiple present.
.PP
The function request contains zero or more phy event configuration
descriptors. Each descriptor is 8 byte long and contains a phy event
source (one byte long) and optionally a peak value detector threshold which
is 32 bits long (4 bytes). These values can either be supplied on the
command line as the arguments to the \fI\-\-pes\fR and \fI\-\-thres\fR
options, or within a \fIFILE\fR given to the \fI\-\-file\fR option.
.PP
Once a phy event source has been configured by this function, its counters
should be readable with the REPORT PHY EVENT or REPORT PHY EVENT LIST
functions. Peak value detector thresholds should only be non\-zero for phy
event sources whose type is "peak value detector". If the threshold value
is exceeded the expander will originate a Broadcast(Expander).
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
sets the CLEAR PEAKS bit the in function request. This will cause all peak
value detectors associated with this phy (i.e. \fIID\fR) to be cleared to
zero.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-enumerate\fR
enumerate all of the known Phy Event Source names, one per line preceded by
its value in hex. Ignores \fISMP_DEVICE\fR if it is given; most other
options are also ignored. Exits after displaying the names.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
where \fIFILE\fR is a file name containing pairs of values. The first
member of each pair is a phy event source and the second member of the
pair is a peak value detector threshold. Values are interpreted as
decimal unless prefixed by '0x' or '0X' (or it has a trailing 'h' or 'H').
Everything from and including a "#" on a line is ignored as are blank lines.
Values may be comma, space and tab separated or appear on separate lines.
This option cannot be present with the \fI\-\-pes\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 254 (default 0).
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-pes\fR=\fIPES,PES...\fR
where \fIPES,PES...\fR is a string of comma (or space) separated values
that are interpreted as phy event sources (each a value from 0 to 255).
Each number is interpreted as decimal unless prefixed by '0x' or '0X' (or
it has a trailing 'h' or 'H'). An argument that contains any space
separators needs to be quoted (or otherwise escaped). When this option is
given then the \fI\-\-thres\fR option may also be given and they should
contain the same number of elements in their arguments.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-thres\fR=\fITHR,THR...\fR
where \fITHR,THR...\fR is a string of comma (or space) separated values
that are interpreted as peak value detector thresholds (each a 32 bit value).
Each number is interpreted as decimal unless prefixed by '0x' or '0X' (or
it has a trailing 'h' or 'H'). An argument that contains any space
separators needs to be quoted (or otherwise escaped). When this option is
given then the \fI\-\-pes\fR option must also be given and they should
contain the same number of elements in their arguments.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP CONFIGURE PHY EVENT function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_rep_phy_event, smp_rep_phy_event_list
