.TH SMP_REP_PHY_EVENT_LIST "8" "April 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_phy_event_list \- invoke REPORT PHY EVENT LIST SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_phy_event_list
[\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-index=IN\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] [\fI\-\-zero\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT PHY EVENT LIST function request
to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be
deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIIN\fR
starting phy event list descriptor index. \fIID\fR is a value between 1 and
65535. Default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH NOTES
Similar information is maintained for SAS SSP target phys (e.g. on a SAS
disk). It can be obtained from the Protocol Specific Port log page with
the sg_logs utility.
.PP
Similar information may be obtained for SAS initiator phys (e.g. on a SAS
HBA). As an example in Linux 2.6.28 error information can be found in this
directory /sys/class/sas_phy/phy-4:0 (for the phy 0 in SCSI/SAS host 4).
.PP
Similar information may be obtained for SATA device phys (e.g. on a SATA
disk). If there is a SAT layer between OS and the SATA device then the
sg_sat_phy_event utility can fetch the information.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT PHY EVENT LIST function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_phy_control, smp_rep_phy_event(smp_utils)
.B sg_logs, sg_sat_phy_event(sg3_utils)
