.TH SMP_DISCOVER_LIST "8" "May 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_discover_list \- invoke DISCOVER LIST SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_discover_list
[\fI\-\-adn\fR] [\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-descriptor=TY\fR]
[\fI\-\-filter=FI\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-ignore\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR] [\fI\-\-one\fR]
[\fI\-\-phy=ID\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-summary\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends one or more SAS Management Protocol (SMP) DISCOVER LIST function
requests to a SMP target and decodes or outputs the responses. The SMP target
is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on
the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR.
The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator)
and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there are
multiple present.
.PP
The DISCOVER LIST response may contain up to 8 descriptors when
the "descriptor type" field in the request is set to
0 (e.g. \fI\-\-descriptor=0\fR). The DISCOVER LIST response may contain up
to 40 descriptors when the "descriptor type" field in the request is set to
1 (e.g. \fI\-\-descriptor=1\fR). Multiple DISCOVER LIST requests will be
made if more descriptors are requested (e.g. \fI\-\-summary\fR requests 254)
and the previous response indicates that more descriptors may be available.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-adn\fR
causes the "attached device name" field to be output when the
\fI\-\-one\fR or \fI\-\-summary\fR option is also given. See the section
below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT. Note the "attached device name" field
is not available in the short format (e.g. \fI\-\-descriptor=1\fR).
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
reduce the decoded response output.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-descriptor\fR=\fITY\fR
set the "descriptor type" field in the request. When \fITY\fR is 0 then the
120 byte response defined by the DISCOVER function response (less its CRC
field) is placed in the descriptors of this function's response. When
\fITY\fR is 1 the short format (i.e. 24 byte per descriptor) information
is placed in the descriptors of this function's response.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-filter\fR=\fIFI\fR
set the filter field in the request. When \fIFI\fR is 0 (default) fetch
descriptors for all phys. When \fIFI\fR is 1 only fetch descriptors for
phys attached to expanders. When \fIFI\fR is 2 only fetch descriptors for
phys attached to expanders or end devices.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR
sets the Ignore Zone Group bit in the SMP Discover list request.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fINUM\fR
maximum number of descriptors fetch. If any descriptors are in the
response the first phy id will be greater than or equal to the
argument of \fI\-\-phy=ID\fR. Note that maximum SMP frame size is
1032 bytes (including a trailing 4 byte CRC) which may limit
the number of descriptors that can be fetched by a single DISCOVER
LIST function (especially when '\-\-descriptor=0').
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-one\fR
use one line (summarized) format for each descriptor in the response.
The default action when this option is not given is to output multiple
indented lines for each descriptor in the response. See the section
below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-phy\fR=\fIID\fR
phy identifier. \fIID\fR is a value between 0 and 254. Default is 0.
This is the lowest numbered phy id to attempt fetch in the response.
Note that due to the filter field setting, the first phy id in
the response may be greater than the argument to this option.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-summary\fR
output a multi line summary, with one line per active phy. Checks up
to 254 phys starting at phy identifier \fIID\fR (which defaults to 0).
Equivalent to '-o -d 1 -n 254 -b' unless the \fI\-\-adn\fR option was also
given, in which case it is equivalent to '-o -d 0 -n 254 -b' . See the
section below on SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH SINGLE LINE PER PHY FORMAT
The \fI\-\-one\fR option causes SMP DISCOVER LIST descriptors to be
compressed to a header section followed by one line per phy. To save
space SAS addresses are shown in hex without a '0x' prefix or 'h' suffix.
The header section outputs information found in the DISCOVER LIST response's
header section.
.PP
For each descriptor in the DISCOVER LIST response, one line is output
starting with "  phy  <n>:" where <n> is the phy
identifier (and they are origin zero). That is followed by the routing
attribute represented by a single letter which is either "D" for direct
routing, "S" to subtractive routing or "T" for table routing. Then comes
the negotiated physical link rate which is either "disabled", "reset
problem" or "spinup hold". Other states are mapped to "attached". This
includes enabled phys with nothing connected which appear
as "attached:[0000000000000000:00]".
.PP
Information shown between the brackets is for the attached device.
Phys that are connected display something
like: "attached:[5000c50000520a2a:01 " where the first number is the
attached SAS address (in hex) and the second number is the attached
device's phy identifier. If the attached device type is other
than an end device then one of these abbreviations is
output: "exp" (for expander), "fex" (for fanout
expander) or "res" (for unknown attached device type). If a phy is
flagged as "virtual" then the letter "V" appears next. Next are the
protocols supported by the attached device which are
shown as "i(<list>)" for initiator protocols and/or "t(<list>)" for
target protocols. The <list> is made up
of "PORT_SEL", "SSP", "STP", "SMP" and "SATA" with "+" used as a
separator. For example a SAS host adapter wi11 most likely appear
as: "i(SSP+STP+SMP)". This completes the information about the
attached phy, hence the closing right bracket.
.PP
If appropriate, the negotiated physical link rate is shown in
gigabits per second. Here is an example of a line for expander
phy identifier 11 connected to a SATA target (or SATA "device" to use
the t13.org term):
.PP
  phy  11:T:attached:[500605b000000afb:00  t(SATA)]  1.5 Gbps
.PP
If the expander supports zoning (i.e. REPORT GENERAL response bit
for 'zoning supported' is set) and a phy's zone group is other than zg 1
then the phy's zone group is shown (e.g. "ZG:2").
.PP
If the \fI\-\-adn\fR option is given then after the attached SAS address
and the attached device's phy identifier are output an extra field is 
inserted containing the "attached device name" field. For a SAS disk this
should be its target device name (in NAA-5 format) and for a SATA disk its
WWN (if provided, also in NAA-5 format). Also when the \fI\-\-adn\fR option
is given the phy speed and zone group are not output in order to keep the
line length reasonable.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP DISCOVER LIST function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover, smp_phy_control
