.TH SMP_READ_GPIO "8" "June 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_read_gpio \- invoke READ GPIO REGISTER (ENHANCED) SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_read_gpio
[\fI\-\-count=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-enhanced\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-index=IN\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-type=TY\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) READ GPIO REGISTER or READ GPIO
REGISTER ENHANCED function request to a SMP target. The SMP target is
identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the
interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The
mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and
needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there are
multiple present.
.PP
This function is defined in SFF\-8485 ( see www.sffcommittee.com )
together with its corresponding WRITE GPIO REGISTER SMP function.
The other SMP functions are defined in SAS documents at www.t10.org .
SFF\-8485 defines a curious device called a "virtual SMP port"
that lives in a host bus adapter (HBA) and allows SMP to manipulate
the sideband signals on wide internal cables. To stop other initiators
in a multi\-initiator domain from accessing those sideband signals,
the virtual SMP (target) port is not indicated in a DISCOVER response.
.PP
In SAS\-2 this function was made obsolete and seemingly replaced by a
function called READ GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED with a reference to the
same SFF document. However the author can find no version of SFF\-8485
that defines the READ GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED function. In SAS\-2.1
both the READ GPIO REGISTER and READ GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED functions
were dropped.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR=\fICO\fR
where \fICO\fR is the register count. This is the number of (4 byte)
registers to request. The default value is 1.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-enhanced\fR
sends a READ GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED function request (default: send a READ
GPIO REGISTER function request).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIIN\fR
where \fIIN\fR is the register index. This value is origin zero and its
default value is 0. If the request succeeds, then \fI\-\-count=CO\fR
registers starting from \fI\-\-index=IN\fR of the given \fI\-\-type=TY\fR
should be in the response.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITY\fR
where \fITY\fR is the register type. The default value is 0 (GPIO_CFG).
If the request succeeds, then \fI\-\-count=CO\fR registers starting from
\fI\-\-index=IN\fR of the given \fI\-\-type=TY\fR should be in the response.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP READ GPIO REGISTER (ENHANCED) function is defined in SFF\-8485 (see
www.sffcommittee.com ) together with its corresponding WRITE GPIO
REGISTER (ENHANCED) SMP function.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_write_gpio(smp_utils)
