.TH SMP_ZONED_BROADCAST "8" "April 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_zoned_broadcast \- invoke ZONED BROADCAST SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_zoned_broadcast
[\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR] [\fI\-\-fszg=FS\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR]
[\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-szg=ZGL\fR] [\fI\-\-type=BT\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) ZONED BROADCAST function request to a
SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may
be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.PP
This function requires zoning to be enabled. To send a Broadcast (Change)
in the absence of zoning, the least intrusive way seems to be to use
a PHY CONTROL request to send a link reset to an expander phy.
Broadcast (Change) should cause a management application client behind a SMP
initiator port (e.g. a SAS HBA) to start a discover process.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
maximum connection time limit.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
In SPL\-1 this field is marked as "restricted (for expected expander
change count)".
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fszg\fR=\fIFS\fR
where \fIFS\fR is the name of a file which contains one or more source
zone groups to send a broadcast to. The zone groups can be given in
decimal (default) or hexadecimal prefixed by '0x' (or '0X') or
with a 'h' (or 'H') suffix. A zone group is a number in the range 0
to 255. Each zone group can be separated by space, tab, comma or
newline. Empty lines and those starting with "#" are ignored.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-szg\fR=\fIZGL\fR
one or more source zone groups for broadcast can appear as a comma separated
list \fIZGL\fR. The may be decimal (default) or hexadecimal prefixed by '0x'
(or '0X') or with a 'h' (or 'H') suffix. A zone group is a number in the
range 0 to 255. Either this option or \fI\-\-fszg=FS\fR (but not both) should
be given.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fIBT\fR
\fIBT\fR is the broadcast type, an integer in the range 0 (default) to 15.
Broadcast (Change) corresponds to 0 and will cause SMP initiators that
receive it to do their discover process. Some other broadcast type values
are 3: Broadcast (SES), 4: Broadcast (Expander), 5: Broadcast (Aysnchronous
event) and 8: Broadcast (Zone Activate). \fIBT\fR may be decimal (default)
or hexadecimal prefixed by '0x' (or '0X') or with a 'h' (or 'H') suffix.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP ZONED BROADCAST function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_zone_lock, smp_zone_unlock, smp_ena_dis_zoning(smp_utils)
