.TH SMP_REP_SELF_CONF_STAT "8" "May 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_self_conf_stat \- invoke REPORT SELF-CONFIGURATION STATUS SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_self_conf_stat
[\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-index=SDI\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-last\fR] [\fI\-\-one\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT SELF-CONFIGURATION STATUS
function request to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the
\fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface,
the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface
uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the
additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple
present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
lessen the amount of header information output and compress each self
confuration status descriptor to one line of output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fISDI\fR
\fISDI\fR is the starting self-configuration status descriptor index, an
integer in the range 0 to 65535. The default value is 1 . If \fISDI\fR is 0
then no descriptors are placed in the response plus the "starting
self-configuration status descriptor index" and "total number of
self-configuration status descriptors" fields in the response are both set
to 0. That makes setting \fISDI\fR to 0 a lot less useful tha it could have
been. \fISDI\fR may be decimal (default) or
hexadecimal prefixed by '0x' (or '0X') or with a 'h' (or 'H') suffix.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-last\fR
Sends a REPORT SELF-CONFIGURATION STATUS request to find out the contents
of the "last self-configuration status descriptor index" field in the
response. If it is different from \fISDI\fR then it re-issues that request
with the "starting self-configuration status descriptor index" field set
to the "last" value. Often only the last (i.e. most recent) recorded
descriptor is of interest and that is what this option should show. In
cases there may be more than one descriptor starting at the last index.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-one\fR
If multiple self-configuration status descriptors are found, then only
output the first one.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. The mpt interface needs
this option and it will typically be an expander's SAS address. The
\fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal.
To give a number in hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a
trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH NOTES
The "last self-configuration status descriptor index" field in the response
may indicate the lowest index of the last recorded (i.e. most recent) "clump"
of status descriptors placed in the expander's storage.
.PP
This utility flags the "last self-configuration status descriptor index"
descriptor in its output with a ">>>" indication. For brief output the
descriptor line starts with ">>>" while for normal output (i.e. when
\fI\-\-brief\fR not given) the index has ">>>" placed in front of it.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT SELF-CONFIGURATION STATUS function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_rep_general, smp_discover, smp_discover_list(smp_utils)
