.TH SMP_CONF_GENERAL "8" "June 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_conf_general \- invoke CONFIGURE GENERAL SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_conf_general
[\fI\-\-connect=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR]
[\fI\-\-hex\fR] [\fI\-\-inactivity=IN\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR]
[\fI\-\-nexus=NE\fR] [\fI\-\-open=OP\fR] [\fI\-\-power=PD\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-reduced=RE\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) CONFIGURE GENERAL function request
to a SMP target. The SMP target is identified by
the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the
interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR.
The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-connect\fR=\fICO\fR
sets the "update STP maximum connect time limit" flag and the
corresponding "STP maximum connect time limit" field to \fICO\fR. Unit of
\fICO\fR is 100 microseconds. A \fICO\fR of zero is taken to mean no
maximum connection time limit.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
set the 'expected expander change count' field in the SMP request.
The value \fIEX\fR is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default
value. When \fIEX\fR is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match
the expander change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when
the request arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a
function result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inactivity\fR=\fIIN\fR
sets the "update STP bus inactivity time limit" flag and the
corresponding "STP bus inactivity time limit" field to \fIIN\fR. Unit of
\fIIN\fR is 100 microseconds. A \fIIN\fR of zero is taken to mean no bus
inactivity time limit.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-nexus\fR=\fINE\fR
sets the "update STP SMP I_T nexus loss time" flag and the
corresponding "STP SMP I_T nexus loss time" field to \fINE\fR. Unit of
\fINE\fR is one millisecond. A \fINE\fR of zero is taken to mean a vendor
specific amount of time; a \fINE\fR of 65535 means the port shall never
recognize an I_T nexus loss.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-open\fR=\fIOP\fR
sets the "update STP reject to open limit" flag and the
corresponding "STP reject to open limit" field to \fIOP\fR. Unit of
\fIOP\fR is 10 microseconds.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-power\fR=\fIPD\fR
sets the "update power done timeout" flag and the corresponding "power
doen timeout" field to \fIPD\fR. Unit of \fIPD\fR is 1 second. A \fIPD\fR
value of 0 is interpreted as don't change the current value. The
maximum value of \fIPD\fR is 255 and means the time limit is vendor
specific.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reduced\fR=\fIRE\fR
sets the "update Initial time to reduced functionality" flag and the
corresponding "Initial time to reduced functionality" field to \fIRE\fR.
Unit of \fIRE\fR is 100 milliseconds. The maximum permitted \fIRE\fR value
is 255 which corresponds to 25.5 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most SAS
addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal either
prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP CONFIGURE GENERAL function was introduced in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_rep_general(smp_utils)
