.TH SMP_WRITE_GPIO "8" "August 2011" "smp_utils\-0.97" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_write_gpio \- invoke WRITE GPIO REGISTER (ENHANCED) SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_write_gpio
[\fI\-\-count=CO\fR] [\fI\-\-data=H,H...\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-index=IN\fR] [\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR]
[\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR] [\fI\-\-type=TY\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Serial Management Protocol (SMP) WRITE GPIO REGISTER or a WRITE
GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED function request to an SMP target. The SMP target is
identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the \fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the
interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The
mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator)
and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to differentiate between HBAs if there
are multiple present.
.PP
This function is defined in SFF\-8485 ( see www.sffcommittee.com ) together
with its corresponding READ GPIO REGISTER (ENHANCED) SMP function.
The other SMP functions are defined in SAS documents at www.t10.org .
SFF\-8485 defines a curious device called a "virtual SMP port"
that lives in a host bus adapter (HBA) and allows SMP to manipulate
the sideband signals in wide internal cables. To stop other initiators
in a multi\-initiator domain from accessing those sideband signals,
the virtual SMP (target) port is not indicated in a DISCOVER response.
.PP
For notes on the SMP WRITE GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED function see the section 
on the ENHANCED FUNCTION below.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR=\fICO\fR
where \fICO\fR is the register count. This is the number of (4 byte)
registers to send. The default value is 1.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-data\fR=\fIH,H...\fR
this option supplies a comma separated list of hexadecimal bytes (0 to
ff inclusive) that will be used as write data in the WRITE GPIO REGISTER
request. The number of bytes supplied should be four times \fI\-\-count=C\fR
The first 4 bytes will become the first register written. 
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-data\fR=\fB-\fR
reads string of hexadecimal bytes from stdin. Spaces, tabs and line feeds
additionally are permitted as separators.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-enhanced\fR
sends a WRITE GPIO REGISTER ENHANCED function request (default: send a WRITE
GPIO REGISTER function request).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response (less the CRC field) in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIIN\fR
where \fIIN\fR is the register index. This value is origin zero and its
default value is 0. The request will send \fI\-\-count=CO\fR registers
starting from \fI\-\-index=IN\fR of the given \fI\-\-type=TY\fR.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response (less the CRC field) to stdout in binary. All error
messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITY\fR
where \fITY\fR is the register type. The default value is 0 (GPIO_CFG).
The request will send \fI\-\-count=CO\fR registers starting from
\fI\-\-index=IN\fR of the given \fI\-\-type=TY\fR.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH ENHANCED FUNCTION
In the technical review of SAS\-2 prior to standardization in this t10
document: 08\-212r8.pdf (page 871 or 552) there is a comment that the
READ GPIO REGISTER and WRITE GPIO REGISTER function headers (i.e. first
4 bytes) do not comply with all the other SMP functions in SAS-2.
.PP
There is a suggestion that enhanced variants be introduced in the next
version of the SFF\-8485 document. If that ever happened then it has
not been made public. In SAS\-2.1 both the READ and WRITE GPIO REGISTER
functions have been made obsolete and the corresponding ENHANCED function
numbers are "restricted" for SFF\-8485.
.PP
If the \fI\-\-enhanced\fR option is given then the ENHANCED function 
number is sent; the register type, index and count fields (1  byte each) 
are increased by two byte positions leaving enough space for a compliant
SAS\-2 SMP header to be built.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP WRITE GPIO REGISTER function is defined in SFF\-8485 (see
www.sffcommittee.com ) together with its corresponding READ
GPIO REGISTER SMP function.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_read_gpio(smp_utils)
