.TH SMP_REP_GENERAL "8" "April 2011" "smp_utils\-0.96" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_rep_general \- invoke REPORT GENERAL SMP function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_rep_general
[\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] [\fI\-\-zero\fR]
\fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Sends a SAS Management Protocol (SMP) REPORT GENERAL function request to a
SMP target. The SMP target is identified by the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR and the
\fISAS_ADDR\fR. Depending on the interface, the \fISAS_ADDR\fR may be
deduced from the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR. The mpt interface uses \fISMP_DEVICE\fR
to identify a HBA (an SMP initiator) and needs the additional \fI,N\fR to
differentiate between HBAs if there are multiple present.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
reports (prints to stdout) only a few important fields from the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. In this case "interface" refers to the
path through the operating system to the SMP initiator. See the smp_utils
man page for more information.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address within it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal but most
SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in hexadecimal
either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-zero\fR
zero the Allocated Response Length field in the request. This is required
for strict SAS\-1.1 compliance. However this option should not be
given in SAS\-2 and later; if it is given an abridged response may result.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html
.SH CONFORMING TO
The SMP REPORT GENERAL function was introduced in SAS\-1, with small additions
in SAS\-1.1 . There have been a large number of additions in SAS\-2 .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2011 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B smp_utils, smp_discover(smp_utils)
