.TH SMP_UTILS "8" "October 2021" "smp_utils\-1.00" SMP_UTILS
.SH NAME
smp_* \- invoke a SAS Serial Management Protocol (SMP) function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smp_*
[\fI\-\-expected=EX\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hex\fR]
[\fI\-\-interface=PARAMS\fR] [\fI\-\-raw\fR] [\fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Serial Attached SCSI (SAS) is a transport (also known as a interconnect)
used by storage systems. A SAS system is made up of Host Bus Adapters (HBAs
typically containing SCSI initiators), disks (referred to in SCSI as
both targets and logical units) and optionally some switching hardware
called "expanders". Expanders are not SCSI devices so a new protocol was
required to control and monitor them. The protocol's full name is the SAS
Serial Management Protocol which is abbreviated to SMP.
.PP
smp_utils is a package of utilities. Each utility sends an SMP function
request to a \fISMP_DEVICE\fR (an SMP target). Some utilities may invoke the
same function more than once. If an error occurs then an error message is
sent to stderr. If no error occurs, the response is decoded (the default),
output in ASCII hex (when \fI\-\-hex\fR is given) or output in binary to
stdout (when the \fI\-\-raw\fR option is given).
.PP
If \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR is not given then the value in the environment
variable SMP_UTILS_DEVICE is used.
.PP
This package was originally written for Linux and has been ported to FreeBSD
and Solaris.
.SH LINUX INTERFACE
Currently there are multiple interfaces that allow SMP functions to be passed
through to an SMP target.
.PP
One method is to have a \fISMP_DEVICE\fR which is actually the SMP
initiator (e.g. '/dev/mptctl,0'). In this case the SMP target's SAS address
must be supplied with the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR option.
.PP
Another method is to have a \fISMP_DEVICE\fR which represents the SMP target.
In this case no \fISAS_ADDRESS\fR needs to be given (since it is implicit).
.PP
Each utility in smp_utils attempts to work out which interface it has been
given by examining the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR file. There are three interfaces
supported currently:
.TP
\fBaac\fR
This specifies the aacraid SAS pass\-through associated with Adaptec/PMC
RAID products. The \fISMP_DEVICE[,N]\fR argument takes the form
\fI/dev/aac[N[,E_ID]]\fR where "N" is the raid controller number (typically
0) and "E_ID" is the expander identifier (typically 0); both default to 0
so \fI/dev/aac\fR is equivalent to \fI/dev/aac0\fR and \fI/dev/aac0,0\fR .
The "N" is the unique_id found in /sys/class/scsi_host<HN>/unique_id .
The "HN" is the host number which is the first number to appear on each
line in the lsscsi utility which by default uses one line to list each
accessible SCSI device (typically SCSI or ATA disks). The "E_ID" is the
expander identifier which can be found with the Adaptec/PMC arcconf utility
using the form "arcconf expanderlist <ControllerNum>". The <ControllerNum>s
start at 1 . If an aac RAID controller is present then the /dev/acc device
node will be created by the first smp utility to use this interface.
.TP
\fBmpt\fR
This specifies the MPT fusion SAS pass\-through. The mptsas driver uses
the '/dev/mptctl' device node (character device major 10, minor 220) while
the mpt2sas driver uses '/dev/mpt2ctl' device node (major 10, minor 221).
For the mpt3sas driver the corresponding device node is '/dev/mpt3ctl'.
The 'modprobe mptctl' or 'modprobe mpt2ctl' command may be needed. If there
are multiple mpt fusion controllers (HBAs) in the computer, then the user
will need to specify which one to use with the syntax: '/dev/mptctl,<n>'
where <n> is the "ioc_num". This number can be found with dmesg after the
mptsas driver is registered and appears as a suffix to the driver name (e.g.
mpt2sas0). It can also be found in '/sys/class/scsi_host/host<n>/unique_id'.
When this interface is used the \fI\-\-sa=SAS_ADDR\fR option must be given
to specify the SAS address of the SMP target.
.TP
\fBsgv4\fR (\fBsg\fR)
This interface is more generic and supported by several SAS HBA drivers
including mptsas (and mpt2sas). It was introduced in the Linux 2.6.24
kernel. The SMP functions are passed to the kernel via the bsg driver using
a format known as "SCSI Generic Version 4" which gives this interface its
name: "sgv4" or just "sg". The SAS transport layer within the SCSI
sub\-system unpacks the SMP requests and forwards them to SAS low level
drivers that support this interface. The \fISMP_DEVICE\fR is either a member
of the '/sys/class/bsg' directory (e.g. /sys/class/bsg/expander\-6:0 ) or a
device node made for the bsg driver (e.g. /dev/bsg/expander\-6:0 ). Such
device nodes are dynamic (i.e. they don't have fixed major and minor
numbers) and should correspond to the major and minor numbers found in
the 'sys/class/bsg/<smp_target_device>/dev' file.
.SH FREEBSD INTERFACE
The CAM subsystem has been enhanced in FreeBSD 9 to pass\-through SMP requests
and return the corresponding responses. However CAM does not directly
access expander devices because they are not SCSI devices. It makes the
assumption that each SAS expander has an integrated SES (enclosure) device
and that is addressed. This assumption seems to be true for SAS\-2 expanders
but not some SAS\-1 expanders. Thus invocations look like this:
.PP
  # smp_discover /dev/ses0
.PP
where /dev/ses0 is a SES device associated with a SAS expander.
.SH SOLARIS INTERFACE
The USMP pass\-through mechanism is used. Invocations look like this:
.PP
  # smp_rep_manufacturer /dev/smp/expd0
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
If the device name is not given then the SMP_UTILS_DEVICE environment
variable is checked and if present its contents are used as the device name.
.PP
If the SAS address (of the SMP target) is not given and it is required (i.e.
it is not implicit in the device name) then the SMP_UTILS_SAS_ADDR
environment variable is checked and if present its contents are used as the
SAS address. SAS addresses are usually given in hex indicated by a
leading '0x' or trailing 'h'.
.PP
A device slot number (dsn) is important for establishing the relationship
between an expander phy and a SES array element. Newer expanders (e.g. SAS\-3)
support dsn_s in the DISCOVER (and DISCOVER LIST) functions. These can be
shown, if available, with the \-\-dsn option to smp_discover and
smp_discover_list utilities.. To ease typing that option often, the
SMP_UTILS_DSN environment variable, if present, has the same effect.
.PP
If both an environment variable and the corresponding command line option is
given and contradict, then the command line options take precedence.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
If an option takes a numeric argument then that argument is assumed to
be decimal unless otherwise indicated (e.g. with a leading "0x" or a
trailing "h").
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-expected\fR=\fIEX\fR
revision 4a of the SAS\-2 draft introduced an 'expected expander change
count' field in some SMP requests. The idea is to detect other SMP
initiators trying to change the state of an expander. The value \fIEX\fR
is from 0 to 65535 inclusive with 0 being the default value. When \fIEX\fR
is greater than zero then if the value doesn't match the expander
change count of the SMP target (i.e. the expander) when the request
arrives then the target ignores the request and sets a function
result of "invalid expander change count" in the response.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
output the usage message for the utility then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hex\fR
output the response in hexadecimal. This does not include the trailing
CRC field.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIPARAMS\fR
interface specific parameters. This option is usually not needed since the
interface type is guessed by a utility based on the characteristics of the
given \fISMP_DEVICE\fR argument or what is in the corresponding environment
variables. \fIPARAMS\fR is of the form: \fIINTF[,force]\fR.
If the guess doesn't work then the interface can be specified by giving
a \fIINTF\fR of either 'mpt' or 'sgv4'.
Sanity checks are still performed and a utility may refuse if
it doesn't agree with the given \fIINTF\fR. If the user is really sure then
adding a ',force' will force the utility to use the given interface.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
send the response to stdout in binary. This does not include the trailing
CRC field. All error messages are sent to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sa\fR=\fISAS_ADDR\fR
specifies the SAS address of the SMP target device. Typically this is an
expander. This option may not be needed if the \fISMP_DEVICE\fR has the
target's SAS address associated with it. The \fISAS_ADDR\fR is in decimal
but most SAS addresses are shown in hexadecimal. To give a number in
hexadecimal either prefix it with '0x' or put a trailing 'h' on it. If this
option is not given then the value in the environment variable
SMP_UTILS_SAS_ADDR is used.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase the verbosity of the output. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version string and then exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
To aid scripts that call these utilities, the exit status is set to
indicate success (0) or failure (1 or more):
.TP
.B 0
success
.TP
.B 1 \- 63
reserved for SMP function result codes. See the SAS\-2 (or later) draft,
in the section on the application layer, drilling down further: management
application layer then SMP functions. Here are some common function result
codes: 1 [unknown SMP function], 2 [SMP function failed], 16 [phy does not
exist], 17 [index does not exist], 18 [phy does not support SATA],
19 [unknown phy operation], 22 [phy vacant] and 35 [zone lock violation].
.TP
.B 91
syntax error. Either illegal options, options with bad arguments or
a combination of options that is not permitted.
.TP
.B 92
the utility is unable to open, close or use the given \fISMP_DEVICE\fR.
The given file name could be incorrect or there may be file permission
problems. Adding the \fI\-\-verbose\fR option may give more information.
.TP
.B 93
the utility has a resource problem. Typically this means an attempt to
allocate memory (ram) has failed.
.TP
.B 97
the response to an SMP function failed sanity checks.
.TP
.B 99
any error that can't be categorized into values 1 to 97 may yield this value.
This includes transport and operating system errors.
.TP
.B 126
the utility was found but could not be executed. That might occur if the
executable does not have execute permissions.
.TP
.B 127
This is the exit status for utility not found. That might occur when a
script calls a utility in this package but the PATH environment variable
has not been properly set up, so the script cannot find the executable.
.TP
.B 128 + <signum>
If a signal kills a utility then the exit status is 128 plus the signal
number. For example if a segmentation fault occurs then a utility is
typically killed by SIGSEGV which according to 'man 7 signal' has an
associated signal number of 11; so the exit status will be 139 .
.TP
.B 255
the utility tried to yield an exit status of 255 or larger. That should
not happen; given here for completeness.
.SH NOTES
Finding the SAS address of an expander can be a challenge in some
environments. An enclosure containing one or more expanders may have the
expander SAS address(es) printed on the back of the device, a bit like
Ethernet MAC addresses.
.PP
In the Linux 2.6 kernel series the expander SAS address may well be in the
sysfs tree but it is not always easy to find. Doing this search may help:
.PP
  # find /sys \-name "*expander*"
.PP
That should show the suffix on any expanders that have been detected. Then
a command like 'cat /sys/class/sas_device/expander\-6:0/sas_address' should
show its SAS address.
.PP
Another approach is to work backwards from SCSI devices (i.e. logical
units). The protocol specific port log page (log page 18h) contains fields
for the "attached SAS address". The sg_logs utility from the sg3_utils
package could be used like this:
.PP
  # sg_logs \-\-page=18h /dev/sdb
.PP
Any given "attached SAS address" is either a HBA, an expander or 0 indicating
that port is not connected. An expander is indicated by "attached device
type: expander device". A SAS disk's target port identifiers (also known as
SAS addresses), device name and logical unit name (all NAA 5 format) can be
found with the sg_vpd utility (e.g. 'sg_vpd \-i <disk_dev>'). The sdparm
utility can provide the same information (e.g. 'sdparm \-i <disk_dev>').
.PP
A SAS expander is often associated with a SCSI Enclosure Services (SES)
device sometimes on the same silicon attached via a virtual phy to the
expander. That SES device may be able to access and control an attached
enclosure or backplane via SGPIO or I2C on sideband signals (e.g. in a
SFF\-8087 cable). To interact with a SES device, see the sg_ses utility.
.PP
Often expander phys are grouped in fours on the same connector (e.g.
SFF\-8088). Care needs to be taken when multiple expanders are interconnected.
An enclosure
.B universal
port is one in which the "table to table supported" attribute is set (in
the REPORT GENERAL response) and the associated phys have the table routing
attribute (in the DISCOVER response). Enclosure
.B universal
ports were introduced in SAS\-2 and have few restrictions when used to
interconnect expanders or connect SAS or SATA devices. An enclosure
.B out
port is one in which the "table to table supported" attribute is clear and
the associated phys have the table routing attribute. An enclosure
.B in
port is one in which the associated phys have the subtractive routing
attribute. When
.B universal
ports are not available, an expander interconnect should be between an
.B in
port and an
.B out
port.
.SH G5 22.5 Gbps or 24G
The so\-called fifth generation (G5) of SAS doubles the data rate of the
previous generation (G4) which ran at 12 Gbps (which is known as its
physical link rate). That means G5 should run at 24 Gbps, yes? No! G1, G2,
G3 and G4 of SAS used 8b10b coding which uses 10 bits (of the physical link
rate) to encode each 8 bits of user data (i.e. 1 byte). This is done in
the "phy" layer. The new "packet mode" in G5 uses 128b150b coding. That is
16 data bytes in 150 bits of G5 (while earlier generations would need 160
bits to hold 16 data bytes). Hence G5 is more (user data) dense. Rather than
have a 106% higher user data rate in G5 over G4, the SAS designers decided
to drop the physical link rate by 6% to 22.5 Gbps so that the (logical) data
rate was exactly doubled from G4.
.PP
So where does the term 24G come from? It is a marketing term. These
utilities will use G5 or 22.5 Gbps and avoid the 24G term.
.PP
Why do "coding"? Apart from moving user data, modern protocols want extra
control characters (e.g. start of packet). G5 also injects bits for forward
error correction (FEC). So\-called out-of-band data may also be sent.
.SH EXAMPLES
See "Examples" section in http://sg.danny.cz/sg/smp_utils.html .
.SH CONFORMING TO
SAS has multiple generations. The early standards are: the original
SAS (ANSI INCITS 376\-2003), SAS 1.1 (INCITS 417\-2006) and SAS\-2 (ANSI
INCITS 457\-2010) . SAS\-2.1 work was split into an electrical and physical
layers document (standardized as SAS\-2.1 ANSI INCITS 478\-2011) with the
upper level layers placed in a document called the SAS Protocol Layer and
it was standardized as SPL ANSI INCITS 476\-2011. Next came SPL\-2 which
was standardized as SPL\-2 ANSI INCITS 505\-2013. Then came SPL\-3 which
was standardized as SPL\-3 ANSI INCITS 492\-2015. SPL\-4 is near
standardization and its most recent draft is spl4r13.pdf while SPL\-5 work
has started and its most recent draft is spl5r03.pdf. To lessen confusion,
the multiple generations of SAS will be referred to in these man pages as
SAS 1, 1.1, 2, 2.1 (SPL), 3 (SPL\-2 and SPL\-3), 4 (SPL\-4) and 5 (SPL\-5).
Roughly speaking for the electrical and physical layers standards SAS\-1
runs at 3 Gbps, SAS\-2 at 6 Gbps, SAS\-3 at 12 Gbps and SAS\-4 at 22.5 Gbps.
Drafts, including those just prior to standardization can be found at the
http://www.t10.org site (e.g. spl\-r07.pdf and spl2r04c.pdf). INCITS policy
now requires a registration to view these drafts, a break from t10.org
tradition.
.PP
The two utilities for reading and writing to GPIO registers, smp_read_gpio
and smp_write_gpio, are defined in the Small Form Factor document SFF\-8485
found at http://www.sffcommittee.com . "Enhanced" versions of the
corresponding SMP functions have been mentioned in some drafts but no
definitions have been published and the references have been removed in more
recent drafts.
.PP
In this section of each utility's man page is the first standard in which
the associated SMP function appeared and whether there have been significant
additions in later standards.
.PP
The COVERAGE file in the smp_utils source tarball shows a table of all SMP
function names defined in the drafts, the versions of those standards in
which those SMP functions first appeared and the corresponding
smp_utils utility names. A lot of extra SMP functions have been added in
SAS\-2 associated with zoning.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Douglas Gilbert.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2021 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B sg_logs, sg_vpd, sg_ses(sg3_utils); sdparm(sdparm); lsscsi(lsscsi)
